[Codelab]: Prefetching in create-react-app with quicklink (#3177)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/codelab-prefetching-wiih-quicklink/index.md

---
layout: codelab
title: "Prefetching in create-react-app with quicklink"
authors:
  - addyosmani
  - demianrenzulli
description: |
  Implement the `quicklink` library in a react SPA demo to demonstrate how prefetching speeds up subsequent navigations.
date: 2020-06-08
glitch: create-react-app-unoptimized
---

{% Aside %}
This codelab uses [Chrome DevTools](https://www.google.com/chrome/). Download Chrome if you don't already have it.
{% endAside %}

This codelab shows you how to implement the `quicklink` library in a react SPA demo to demonstrate how prefetching speeds up subsequent navigations.

## Measure

> Before diving in to add optimizations, it's always a good idea to first analyze the current state of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding optimizations, it's always a good idea to first analyze the current state of the application.
```
This gets the same idea across with less words

> 
> {% Instruction 'preview' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{% Instruction 'remix' %}
{% Instruction 'preview' %}
```

> 
> The website is a simple demo built with [create-react-app](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The website is a simple demo built with [create-react-app](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).

Complete the following instructions in the new tab that just opened:

```

{% Instruction 'devtools-network', 'ol' %}
{% Instruction 'disable-cache', 'ol' %}
1. In the [Throttling drop-down list](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network/reference#throttling), select **Fast 3G** to simulate a slow connection type.
{% Instruction 'reload-app', 'ol' %}

> 1. Filter requests for the word "chunk", to visualize the chunks that are loaded for this particular page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type `chunk` into the [Filter textbox](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network/reference#filter-by-property) to hide any resources that do not include `chunk` in their name.
```

> <img class="w-screenshot" src="./cdt-home-unoptimized.png" alt="Network panel showing the home page chunks.">

Reviewer: Nice screenshot 👍

The site uses [route-based code splitting](https://web.dev/reduce-javascript-payloads-with-code-splitting/), thanks to which only the necessary code is requested at the beginning.

1. [Clear the network requests in DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network/reference#clear).
1. Within the app, click the **Blog** link to navigate to that page.

The JS and CSS chunks for the new route are loaded to render the page.

<img class="w-screenshot" src="./cdt-blog-unoptimized.png" alt="Network panel showing the blog page chunks.">

> Next, you'll implement `quicklink` in this site, so that these chunks can be prefetched in the home page, making the navigation faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you'll implement Quicklink in this site, so that these chunks can be prefetched in the home page, making the navigation faster.
```

This allows you to combine the best of both techniques: 

- Route-based code splitting tells the browser to only load the necessary chunks at a higher priority at page load time.
- Prefetching tells the browser to load the chunks for in-viewport links at the lowest priority, during the browser's idle time.

## Configure `webpack-route-manifest`

The first step is to install and configure [webpack-route-manifest](https://github.com/lukeed/webpack-route-manifest), a webpack plugin that lets you generate a manifest file associating routes with their corresponding chunks.

Usually, you would need to install the library, but we've already done it for you. Here's the command that you would need to run:

```bash
npm install webpack-route-manifest --save-dev
```

> `config-overrides.js` is a file placed in your project root directory where you can override existing behaviour of the webpack configuration, without having to [eject the project](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/cra-template/template/README.md#npm-run-eject).
> 
> Open `config-overrides.js` for edit and add the `webpack-route-manifest` dependency at the beginning of the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`config-overrides.js` is a file placed in your project root directory where you can override existing behaviour of the webpack configuration, without having to [eject the project](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/cra-template/template/README.md#npm-run-eject).

{% Instruction 'source' %}

Open `config-overrides.js` for edit and add the `webpack-route-manifest` dependency at the beginning of the file:
```

```javascript/1/
const path = require('path');
const RouteManifest = require('webpack-route-manifest');
```

> Next, add the following code to configure the `webpack-route-manifest` plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, configure the `webpack-route-manifest` plugin by adding the following
code to the bottom of `config-overrides.js`:
```

> ```javascript/0-24/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```
Let's get rid of the code highlighting because it's a bit overwhelming

module.exports = function override(config) {
  config.resolve = {
    ...config.resolve,
    alias: {
      '@assets': `${path.resolve(__dirname, 'src/assets')}`,
      '@pages': `${path.resolve(__dirname, 'src/pages')}`,
      '@components': `${path.resolve(__dirname, 'src/components')}`,
    },
  };

  config.plugins.push(
    new RouteManifest({
      minify: true,
      filename: 'rmanifest.json',
      routes(str) {
        let out = str.replace('@pages', '').toLowerCase();
        if (out === '/article') return '/blog/:title';
        if (out === '/home') return '/';
        return out;
      },
    }),
  );

  return config;
};
```

The new code does the following:

- `config.resolve` declares variables with the internal routes to pages, assets and components.

> - `config.plugins.push()` creates a `RouteManifest` object and passes it the configuration so that the `manifest.json` file can be generated based on the site's routes and chunks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `config.plugins.push()` creates a `RouteManifest` object and passes it the configuration so that the `rmanifest.json` file can be generated based on the site's routes and chunks.
```
The value for the `filename` property is `rmanifest.json`, is that what you meant?

Author: Correct!

The `manifest.json` file will be generated and made available at `https://site_url/rmanifest.json`.

## Configure quicklink

> At this point you would need to install the `quicklnk` library in your project. For simplicity, we already added it to the project. Here's the command that you would need to run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point you would need to install the Quicklink library in your project. For simplicity, we already added it to the project. Here's the command that you would need to run:
```

```bash

> npm install quicklink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install --save quicklink
```
Don't we need `--save` so that it's saved to the `dependencies` array of `package.json`? Pretty sure if we omit it's just installed but not saved to `package.json`

```

Open `src/components/App/index.js` for edit.

> First, import the quicklnk higher order component (HOC):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, import the Quicklink higher order component (HOC):
```

```javascript/6/
import React, { lazy, Suspense } from 'react';
import { Route } from 'react-router-dom';

import Footer from '@components/Footer';
import Hero from '@components/Hero';
import style from './index.module.css';
import { withQuicklink } from 'quicklink/dist/react/hoc.js';

const Home = lazy(() => import(/* webpackChunkName: "home" */ '@pages/Home'));
const About = lazy(() => import(/* webpackChunkName: "about" */ '@pages/About'));
const Article = lazy(() => import(/* webpackChunkName: "article" */ '@pages/Article'));
const Blog = lazy(() => import(/* webpackChunkName: "blog" */ '@pages/Blog'));
```

Next, create an `options` object to use as an argument when calling `quicklink`:

```javascript/0-2/
const options = {
	origins: []
};

> ```

Reviewer: Please provide a little more context around where this code should be placed (e.g. under the `Blog` declaration?)

Finally, wrap each route with the `withQuicklink()` higher order component, passing it an `options` parameter and the target component for that route:

```javascript/5-11/
const App = () => (
  <div className={style.app}>
    <Hero />
    <main className={style.wrapper}>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Route path="/" exact component={withQuicklink(Home, options)} />
        <Route path="/blog" exact component={withQuicklink(Blog, options)} />
        <Route
          path="/blog/:title"
          component={withQuicklink(Article, options)}
        />
        <Route path="/about" exact component={withQuicklink(About, options)} />
      </Suspense>
    </main>
    <Footer />
  </div>
);
```
The previous code instructs to prefetch chunks for the routes wrapped with `withQuicklink()`, when the link comes into the view.

> {% Aside %}
> If the Glitch console throws an error at this point about the lack of a dependency, try running `refresh` to restart the server and run the `npm run build` after that.
> {% endAside %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
If Glitch throws an error at this point about the lack of a dependency,
try opening the Glitch Terminal (**Tools** > **Terminal**), running
`refresh` in the Terminal, then running `npm run build`.
{% endAside %}
```

## Measure again

> 1. Open the site in a new Chrome tab.
> {% Instruction 'devtools-network', 'ol' %}
> {% Instruction 'disable-cache', 'ol' %}
> 1. In the Throttling drop-down list, select **Fast 3G** to simulate a slow connection type.
> {% Instruction 'reload-app', 'ol' %}
> 1. Filter requests for "chunk" in the network panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat the first 6 steps from [Measure](#measure). Don't navigate to the blog page yet.
```

> When the home page loads the chunks for that route are loaded. After that, `quicklink` prefetches the route's chunks for the in-viewport links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the home page loads the chunks for that route are loaded. After that, Quicklink prefetches the route's chunks for the in-viewport links:
```

<img class="w-screenshot" src="./cdt-home-optimized.png" alt="Network panel showing the home page prefetching chunks.">

These chunks are requested at the lowest priority and without blocking the page.

Next: 

> 1. Clear the network panel.
> 1. Click on the **Blog** link to navigate to that page.
> 1. Filter requests for "chunk" in the network panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clear the Network log again.
1. Click the **Blog** link to navigate to that page.
```

<img class="w-screenshot" src="./cdt-blog-optimized.png" alt="Network panel showing the blog page with chunks picked up from cache.">

> The **Size** column indicates that these chunks were retrieved from the "prefetch cache", instead of the network. Loading these chunks without a `quicklink` took approximately **580ms**. Using the library it now takes **2ms**, which represents a **99% reduction**!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Size** column indicates that these chunks were retrieved from the "prefetch cache", instead of the network. Loading these chunks without a Quicklink took approximately **580ms**. Using the library it now takes **2ms**, which represents a **99% reduction**!
```

Reviewer: I think this isn't working because we still have the **Disable cache** checkbox enabled. I think you need to update the instructions to account for that.
